docs/library/machine.SD.rst, before:

.. currentmodule:: machine
.. _machine.SD:

class SD -- secure digital memory card
======================================

The SD card class allows to configure and enable the memory card
module of the WiPy and automatically mount it as ``/sd`` as part
of the file system. There are several pin combinations that can be
used to wire the SD card socket to the WiPy and the pins used can
be specified in the constructor. Please check the `pinout and alternate functions
table. <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wipy/wipy/master/docs/PinOUT.png>`_ for
more info regarding the pins which can be remapped to be used with a SD card.

Example usage::

    from machine import SD
    import os
    # clk cmd and dat0 pins must be passed along with
    # their respective alternate functions
    sd = machine.SD(pins=('GP10', 'GP11', 'GP15'))
    os.mount(sd, '/sd')
    # do normal file operations

Constructors
------------

.. class:: SD(id,... )

   Create a SD card object. See ``init()`` for parameters if initialization. 

Methods
-------

.. method:: SD.init(id=0, pins=('GP10', 'GP11', 'GP15'))

   Enable the SD card. In order to initialize the card, give it a 3-tuple:
   ``(clk_pin, cmd_pin, dat0_pin)``.

.. method:: SD.deinit()

   Disable the SD card.

Commit message:

docs/library/machine: Remove conditionals in machine class index.
The machine module should be standard across all ports so should have the
same set of classes in the docs.  A special warning is added to the top of
the machine.SD class because it is not standardised and only available on
the cc3200 port.

docs/library/machine.SD.rst, after:

.. currentmodule:: machine
.. _machine.SD:

class SD -- secure digital memory card
======================================

.. warning::

   This is a non-standard class and is only available on the cc3200 port.


The SD card class allows to configure and enable the memory card
module of the WiPy and automatically mount it as ``/sd`` as part
of the file system. There are several pin combinations that can be
used to wire the SD card socket to the WiPy and the pins used can
be specified in the constructor. Please check the `pinout and alternate functions
table. <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wipy/wipy/master/docs/PinOUT.png>`_ for
more info regarding the pins which can be remapped to be used with a SD card.

Example usage::

    from machine import SD
    import os
    # clk cmd and dat0 pins must be passed along with
    # their respective alternate functions
    sd = machine.SD(pins=('GP10', 'GP11', 'GP15'))
    os.mount(sd, '/sd')
    # do normal file operations

Constructors
------------

.. class:: SD(id,... )

   Create a SD card object. See ``init()`` for parameters if initialization. 

Methods
-------

.. method:: SD.init(id=0, pins=('GP10', 'GP11', 'GP15'))

   Enable the SD card. In order to initialize the card, give it a 3-tuple:
   ``(clk_pin, cmd_pin, dat0_pin)``.

.. method:: SD.deinit()

   Disable the SD card.
