docs/library/ucollections.rst, before:

:mod:`ucollections` -- collection and container types
=====================================================

.. module:: ucollections
   :synopsis: collection and container types

|see_cpython_module| :mod:`python:collections`.

This module implements advanced collection and container types to
hold/accumulate various objects.

Classes
-------

.. function:: namedtuple(name, fields)

    This is factory function to create a new namedtuple type with a specific
    name and set of fields. A namedtuple is a subclass of tuple which allows
    to access its fields not just by numeric index, but also with an attribute
    access syntax using symbolic field names. Fields is a sequence of strings
    specifying field names. For compatibility with CPython it can also be a
    a string with space-separated field named (but this is less efficient).
    Example of use::

        from ucollections import namedtuple

        MyTuple = namedtuple("MyTuple", ("id", "name"))
        t1 = MyTuple(1, "foo")
        t2 = MyTuple(2, "bar")
        print(t1.name)
        assert t2.name == t2[1]

.. function:: OrderedDict(...)

    ``dict`` type subclass which remembers and preserves the order of keys
    added. When ordered dict is iterated over, keys/items are returned in
    the order they were added::

        from ucollections import OrderedDict

        # To make benefit of ordered keys, OrderedDict should be initialized
        # from sequence of (key, value) pairs.
        d = OrderedDict([("z", 1), ("a", 2)])
        # More items can be added as usual
        d["w"] = 5
        d["b"] = 3
        for k, v in d.items():
            print(k, v)

    Output::

        z 1
        a 2
        w 5
        b 3

Commit message:

docs/library: Add documentation for ucollections.deque.

docs/library/ucollections.rst, after:

:mod:`ucollections` -- collection and container types
=====================================================

.. module:: ucollections
   :synopsis: collection and container types

|see_cpython_module| :mod:`python:collections`.

This module implements advanced collection and container types to
hold/accumulate various objects.

Classes
-------

.. function:: deque(iterable, maxlen[, flags])

    Deques (double-ended queues) are a list-like container that support O(1)
    appends and pops from either side of the deque.  New deques are created
    using the following arguments:

        - *iterable* must be the empty tuple, and the new deque is created empty.

        - *maxlen* must be specified and the deque will be bounded to this
          maximum length.  Once the deque is full, any new items added will
          discard items from the opposite end.

        - The optional *flags* can be 1 to check for overflow when adding items.

    As well as supporting `bool` and `len`, deque objects have the following
    methods:

    .. method:: deque.append(x)

        Add *x* to the right side of the deque.
        Raises IndexError if overflow checking is enabled and there is no more room left.

    .. method:: deque.popleft()

        Remove and return an item from the left side of the deque.
        Raises IndexError if no items are present.

.. function:: namedtuple(name, fields)

    This is factory function to create a new namedtuple type with a specific
    name and set of fields. A namedtuple is a subclass of tuple which allows
    to access its fields not just by numeric index, but also with an attribute
    access syntax using symbolic field names. Fields is a sequence of strings
    specifying field names. For compatibility with CPython it can also be a
    a string with space-separated field named (but this is less efficient).
    Example of use::

        from ucollections import namedtuple

        MyTuple = namedtuple("MyTuple", ("id", "name"))
        t1 = MyTuple(1, "foo")
        t2 = MyTuple(2, "bar")
        print(t1.name)
        assert t2.name == t2[1]

.. function:: OrderedDict(...)

    ``dict`` type subclass which remembers and preserves the order of keys
    added. When ordered dict is iterated over, keys/items are returned in
    the order they were added::

        from ucollections import OrderedDict

        # To make benefit of ordered keys, OrderedDict should be initialized
        # from sequence of (key, value) pairs.
        d = OrderedDict([("z", 1), ("a", 2)])
        # More items can be added as usual
        d["w"] = 5
        d["b"] = 3
        for k, v in d.items():
            print(k, v)

    Output::

        z 1
        a 2
        w 5
        b 3
