docs/library/uos.rst, before:

:mod:`uos` -- basic "operating system" services
===============================================

.. module:: uos
   :synopsis: basic "operating system" services

|see_cpython_module| :mod:`python:os`.

The ``uos`` module contains functions for filesystem access and mounting,
terminal redirection and duplication, and the ``uname`` and ``urandom``
functions.

General functions
-----------------

.. function:: uname()

   Return a tuple (possibly a named tuple) containing information about the
   underlying machine and/or its operating system.  The tuple has five fields
   in the following order, each of them being a string:

        * ``sysname`` -- the name of the underlying system
        * ``nodename`` -- the network name (can be the same as ``sysname``)
        * ``release`` -- the version of the underlying system
        * ``version`` -- the MicroPython version and build date
        * ``machine`` -- an identifier for the underlying hardware (eg board, CPU)

.. function:: urandom(n)

   Return a bytes object with *n* random bytes. Whenever possible, it is
   generated by the hardware random number generator.

Filesystem access
-----------------

.. function:: chdir(path)

   Change current directory.

.. function:: getcwd()

   Get the current directory.

.. function:: ilistdir([dir])

   This function returns an iterator which then yields 3-tuples corresponding to
   the entries in the directory that it is listing.  With no argument it lists the
   current directory, otherwise it lists the directory given by *dir*.

   The 3-tuples have the form *(name, type, inode)*:

    - *name* is a string (or bytes if *dir* is a bytes object) and is the name of
      the entry;
    - *type* is an integer that specifies the type of the entry, with 0x4000 for
      directories and 0x8000 for regular files;
    - *inode* is an integer corresponding to the inode of the file, and may be 0
      for filesystems that don't have such a notion.

.. function:: listdir([dir])

   With no argument, list the current directory.  Otherwise list the given directory.

.. function:: mkdir(path)

   Create a new directory.

.. function:: remove(path)

   Remove a file.

.. function:: rmdir(path)

   Remove a directory.

.. function:: rename(old_path, new_path)

   Rename a file.

.. function:: stat(path)

   Get the status of a file or directory.

.. function:: statvfs(path)

   Get the status of a fileystem.

   Returns a tuple with the filesystem information in the following order:

        * ``f_bsize`` -- file system block size
        * ``f_frsize`` -- fragment size
        * ``f_blocks`` -- size of fs in f_frsize units
        * ``f_bfree`` -- number of free blocks
        * ``f_bavail`` -- number of free blocks for unpriviliged users
        * ``f_files`` -- number of inodes
        * ``f_ffree`` -- number of free inodes
        * ``f_favail`` -- number of free inodes for unpriviliged users
        * ``f_flag`` -- mount flags
        * ``f_namemax`` -- maximum filename length

   Parameters related to inodes: ``f_files``, ``f_ffree``, ``f_avail``
   and the ``f_flags`` parameter may return ``0`` as they can be unavailable
   in a port-specific implementation.

.. function:: sync()

   Sync all filesystems.

Terminal redirection and duplication
------------------------------------

.. function:: dupterm(stream_object, index=0)

   Duplicate or switch the MicroPython terminal (the REPL) on the given `stream`-like
   object. The *stream_object* argument must implement the ``readinto()`` and
   ``write()`` methods.  The stream should be in non-blocking mode and
   ``readinto()`` should return ``None`` if there is no data available for reading.

   After calling this function all terminal output is repeated on this stream,
   and any input that is available on the stream is passed on to the terminal input.

   The *index* parameter should be a non-negative integer and specifies which
   duplication slot is set.  A given port may implement more than one slot (slot 0
   will always be available) and in that case terminal input and output is
   duplicated on all the slots that are set.

   If ``None`` is passed as the *stream_object* then duplication is cancelled on
   the slot given by *index*.

   The function returns the previous stream-like object in the given slot.

Filesystem mounting
-------------------

Some ports provide a Virtual Filesystem (VFS) and the ability to mount multiple
"real" filesystems within this VFS.  Filesystem objects can be mounted at either
the root of the VFS, or at a subdirectory that lives in the root.  This allows
dynamic and flexible configuration of the filesystem that is seen by Python
programs.  Ports that have this functionality provide the :func:`mount` and
:func:`umount` functions, and possibly various filesystem implementations
represented by VFS classes.

.. function:: mount(fsobj, mount_point, \*, readonly)

    Mount the filesystem object *fsobj* at the location in the VFS given by the
    *mount_point* string.  *fsobj* can be a a VFS object that has a ``mount()``
    method, or a block device.  If it's a block device then the filesystem type
    is automatically detected (an exception is raised if no filesystem was
    recognised).  *mount_point* may be ``'/'`` to mount *fsobj* at the root,
    or ``'/<name>'`` to mount it at a subdirectory under the root.

    If *readonly* is ``True`` then the filesystem is mounted read-only.

    During the mount process the method ``mount()`` is called on the filesystem
    object.

    Will raise ``OSError(EPERM)`` if *mount_point* is already mounted.

.. function:: umount(mount_point)

    Unmount a filesystem. *mount_point* can be a string naming the mount location,
    or a previously-mounted filesystem object.  During the unmount process the
    method ``umount()`` is called on the filesystem object.

    Will raise ``OSError(EINVAL)`` if *mount_point* is not found.

.. class:: VfsFat(block_dev)

    Create a filesystem object that uses the FAT filesystem format.  Storage of
    the FAT filesystem is provided by *block_dev*.
    Objects created by this constructor can be mounted using :func:`mount`.

    .. staticmethod:: mkfs(block_dev)

        Build a FAT filesystem on *block_dev*.

Block devices
-------------

A block device is an object which implements the block protocol, which is a set
of methods described below by the :class:`AbstractBlockDev` class.  A concrete
implementation of this class will usually allow access to the memory-like
functionality a piece of hardware (like flash memory).  A block device can be
used by a particular filesystem driver to store the data for its filesystem.

.. class:: AbstractBlockDev(...)

    Construct a block device object.  The parameters to the constructor are
    dependent on the specific block device.

    .. method:: readblocks(block_num, buf)

        Starting at *block_num*, read blocks from the device into *buf* (an array
        of bytes).  The number of blocks to read is given by the length of *buf*,
        which will be a multiple of the block size.

    .. method:: writeblocks(block_num, buf)

        Starting at *block_num*, write blocks from *buf* (an array of bytes) to
        the device.  The number of blocks to write is given by the length of *buf*,
        which will be a multiple of the block size.

    .. method:: ioctl(op, arg)

        Control the block device and query its parameters.  The operation to
        perform is given by *op* which is one of the following integers:

          - 1 -- initialise the device (*arg* is unused)
          - 2 -- shutdown the device (*arg* is unused)
          - 3 -- sync the device (*arg* is unused)
          - 4 -- get a count of the number of blocks, should return an integer
            (*arg* is unused)
          - 5 -- get the number of bytes in a block, should return an integer,
            or ``None`` in which case the default value of 512 is used
            (*arg* is unused)

By way of example, the following class will implement a block device that stores
its data in RAM using a ``bytearray``::

    class RAMBlockDev:
        def __init__(self, block_size, num_blocks):
            self.block_size = block_size
            self.data = bytearray(block_size * num_blocks)

        def readblocks(self, block_num, buf):
            for i in range(len(buf)):
                buf[i] = self.data[block_num * self.block_size + i]

        def writeblocks(self, block_num, buf):
            for i in range(len(buf)):
                self.data[block_num * self.block_size + i] = buf[i]

        def ioctl(self, op, arg):
            if op == 4: # get number of blocks
                return len(self.data) // self.block_size
            if op == 5: # get block size
                return self.block_size

It can be used as follows::

    import uos

    bdev = RAMBlockDev(512, 50)
    uos.VfsFat.mkfs(bdev)
    vfs = uos.VfsFat(bdev)
    uos.mount(vfs, '/ramdisk')

Commit message:

extmod/vfs_fat: Add file size as 4th element of uos.ilistdir tuple.

docs/library/uos.rst, after:

:mod:`uos` -- basic "operating system" services
===============================================

.. module:: uos
   :synopsis: basic "operating system" services

|see_cpython_module| :mod:`python:os`.

The ``uos`` module contains functions for filesystem access and mounting,
terminal redirection and duplication, and the ``uname`` and ``urandom``
functions.

General functions
-----------------

.. function:: uname()

   Return a tuple (possibly a named tuple) containing information about the
   underlying machine and/or its operating system.  The tuple has five fields
   in the following order, each of them being a string:

        * ``sysname`` -- the name of the underlying system
        * ``nodename`` -- the network name (can be the same as ``sysname``)
        * ``release`` -- the version of the underlying system
        * ``version`` -- the MicroPython version and build date
        * ``machine`` -- an identifier for the underlying hardware (eg board, CPU)

.. function:: urandom(n)

   Return a bytes object with *n* random bytes. Whenever possible, it is
   generated by the hardware random number generator.

Filesystem access
-----------------

.. function:: chdir(path)

   Change current directory.

.. function:: getcwd()

   Get the current directory.

.. function:: ilistdir([dir])

   This function returns an iterator which then yields tuples corresponding to
   the entries in the directory that it is listing.  With no argument it lists the
   current directory, otherwise it lists the directory given by *dir*.

   The tuples have the form *(name, type, inode[, size])*:

    - *name* is a string (or bytes if *dir* is a bytes object) and is the name of
      the entry;
    - *type* is an integer that specifies the type of the entry, with 0x4000 for
      directories and 0x8000 for regular files;
    - *inode* is an integer corresponding to the inode of the file, and may be 0
      for filesystems that don't have such a notion.
    - Some platforms may return a 4-tuple that includes the entry's *size*.  For
      file entries, *size* is an integer representing the size of the file
      or -1 if unknown.  Its meaning is currently undefined for directory
      entries.

.. function:: listdir([dir])

   With no argument, list the current directory.  Otherwise list the given directory.

.. function:: mkdir(path)

   Create a new directory.

.. function:: remove(path)

   Remove a file.

.. function:: rmdir(path)

   Remove a directory.

.. function:: rename(old_path, new_path)

   Rename a file.

.. function:: stat(path)

   Get the status of a file or directory.

.. function:: statvfs(path)

   Get the status of a fileystem.

   Returns a tuple with the filesystem information in the following order:

        * ``f_bsize`` -- file system block size
        * ``f_frsize`` -- fragment size
        * ``f_blocks`` -- size of fs in f_frsize units
        * ``f_bfree`` -- number of free blocks
        * ``f_bavail`` -- number of free blocks for unpriviliged users
        * ``f_files`` -- number of inodes
        * ``f_ffree`` -- number of free inodes
        * ``f_favail`` -- number of free inodes for unpriviliged users
        * ``f_flag`` -- mount flags
        * ``f_namemax`` -- maximum filename length

   Parameters related to inodes: ``f_files``, ``f_ffree``, ``f_avail``
   and the ``f_flags`` parameter may return ``0`` as they can be unavailable
   in a port-specific implementation.

.. function:: sync()

   Sync all filesystems.

Terminal redirection and duplication
------------------------------------

.. function:: dupterm(stream_object, index=0)

   Duplicate or switch the MicroPython terminal (the REPL) on the given `stream`-like
   object. The *stream_object* argument must implement the ``readinto()`` and
   ``write()`` methods.  The stream should be in non-blocking mode and
   ``readinto()`` should return ``None`` if there is no data available for reading.

   After calling this function all terminal output is repeated on this stream,
   and any input that is available on the stream is passed on to the terminal input.

   The *index* parameter should be a non-negative integer and specifies which
   duplication slot is set.  A given port may implement more than one slot (slot 0
   will always be available) and in that case terminal input and output is
   duplicated on all the slots that are set.

   If ``None`` is passed as the *stream_object* then duplication is cancelled on
   the slot given by *index*.

   The function returns the previous stream-like object in the given slot.

Filesystem mounting
-------------------

Some ports provide a Virtual Filesystem (VFS) and the ability to mount multiple
"real" filesystems within this VFS.  Filesystem objects can be mounted at either
the root of the VFS, or at a subdirectory that lives in the root.  This allows
dynamic and flexible configuration of the filesystem that is seen by Python
programs.  Ports that have this functionality provide the :func:`mount` and
:func:`umount` functions, and possibly various filesystem implementations
represented by VFS classes.

.. function:: mount(fsobj, mount_point, \*, readonly)

    Mount the filesystem object *fsobj* at the location in the VFS given by the
    *mount_point* string.  *fsobj* can be a a VFS object that has a ``mount()``
    method, or a block device.  If it's a block device then the filesystem type
    is automatically detected (an exception is raised if no filesystem was
    recognised).  *mount_point* may be ``'/'`` to mount *fsobj* at the root,
    or ``'/<name>'`` to mount it at a subdirectory under the root.

    If *readonly* is ``True`` then the filesystem is mounted read-only.

    During the mount process the method ``mount()`` is called on the filesystem
    object.

    Will raise ``OSError(EPERM)`` if *mount_point* is already mounted.

.. function:: umount(mount_point)

    Unmount a filesystem. *mount_point* can be a string naming the mount location,
    or a previously-mounted filesystem object.  During the unmount process the
    method ``umount()`` is called on the filesystem object.

    Will raise ``OSError(EINVAL)`` if *mount_point* is not found.

.. class:: VfsFat(block_dev)

    Create a filesystem object that uses the FAT filesystem format.  Storage of
    the FAT filesystem is provided by *block_dev*.
    Objects created by this constructor can be mounted using :func:`mount`.

    .. staticmethod:: mkfs(block_dev)

        Build a FAT filesystem on *block_dev*.

Block devices
-------------

A block device is an object which implements the block protocol, which is a set
of methods described below by the :class:`AbstractBlockDev` class.  A concrete
implementation of this class will usually allow access to the memory-like
functionality a piece of hardware (like flash memory).  A block device can be
used by a particular filesystem driver to store the data for its filesystem.

.. class:: AbstractBlockDev(...)

    Construct a block device object.  The parameters to the constructor are
    dependent on the specific block device.

    .. method:: readblocks(block_num, buf)

        Starting at *block_num*, read blocks from the device into *buf* (an array
        of bytes).  The number of blocks to read is given by the length of *buf*,
        which will be a multiple of the block size.

    .. method:: writeblocks(block_num, buf)

        Starting at *block_num*, write blocks from *buf* (an array of bytes) to
        the device.  The number of blocks to write is given by the length of *buf*,
        which will be a multiple of the block size.

    .. method:: ioctl(op, arg)

        Control the block device and query its parameters.  The operation to
        perform is given by *op* which is one of the following integers:

          - 1 -- initialise the device (*arg* is unused)
          - 2 -- shutdown the device (*arg* is unused)
          - 3 -- sync the device (*arg* is unused)
          - 4 -- get a count of the number of blocks, should return an integer
            (*arg* is unused)
          - 5 -- get the number of bytes in a block, should return an integer,
            or ``None`` in which case the default value of 512 is used
            (*arg* is unused)

By way of example, the following class will implement a block device that stores
its data in RAM using a ``bytearray``::

    class RAMBlockDev:
        def __init__(self, block_size, num_blocks):
            self.block_size = block_size
            self.data = bytearray(block_size * num_blocks)

        def readblocks(self, block_num, buf):
            for i in range(len(buf)):
                buf[i] = self.data[block_num * self.block_size + i]

        def writeblocks(self, block_num, buf):
            for i in range(len(buf)):
                self.data[block_num * self.block_size + i] = buf[i]

        def ioctl(self, op, arg):
            if op == 4: # get number of blocks
                return len(self.data) // self.block_size
            if op == 5: # get block size
                return self.block_size

It can be used as follows::

    import uos

    bdev = RAMBlockDev(512, 50)
    uos.VfsFat.mkfs(bdev)
    vfs = uos.VfsFat(bdev)
    uos.mount(vfs, '/ramdisk')
