docs/wipy/quickref.rst, before:

.. _quickref_:

Quick reference for the WiPy
============================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wipy/wipy/master/docs/PinOUT.png
    :alt: WiPy pinout and alternate functions table
    :width: 800px

General board control (including sleep modes)
---------------------------------------------

See the :mod:`machine` module::

    import machine

    help(machine) # display all members from the machine module
    machine.freq() # get the CPU frequency
    machine.unique_id() # return the 6-byte unique id of the board (the WiPy's MAC address)

    machine.idle()        # average current decreases to (~12mA), any interrupts wake it up
    machine.sleep()       # everything except for WLAN is powered down (~950uA avg. current)
                          # wakes from Pin, RTC or WLAN
    machine.deepsleep()   # deepest sleep mode, MCU starts from reset. Wakes from Pin and RTC.

Pins and GPIO
-------------

See :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>`. ::

    from machine import Pin

    # initialize GP2 in gpio mode (alt=0) and make it an output
    p_out = Pin('GP2', mode=Pin.OUT)
    p_out.value(1)
    p_out.value(0)
    p_out.toggle()
    p_out(True)

    # make GP1 an input with the pull-up enabled
    p_in = Pin('GP1', mode=Pin.IN, pull=Pin.PULL_UP)
    p_in() # get value, 0 or 1

Timers
------

See :ref:`machine.TimerWiPy <machine.TimerWiPy>` and :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>`.
Timer ``id``'s take values from 0 to 3.::

    from machine import Timer
    from machine import Pin

    tim = Timer(0, mode=Timer.PERIODIC)
    tim_a = tim.channel(Timer.A, freq=1000)
    tim_a.freq(5) # 5 Hz
    
    p_out = Pin('GP2', mode=Pin.OUT)
    tim_a.irq(trigger=Timer.TIMEOUT, handler=lambda t: p_out.toggle())

PWM (pulse width modulation)
----------------------------

See :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>` and :ref:`machine.Timer <machine.Timer>`. ::

    from machine import Timer

    # timer 1 in PWM mode and width must be 16 buts
    tim = Timer(1, mode=Timer.PWM, width=16)
    
    # enable channel A @1KHz with a 50.55% duty cycle
    tim_a = tim.channel(Timer.A, freq=1000, duty_cycle=5055)

ADC (analog to digital conversion)
----------------------------------

See :ref:`machine.ADC <machine.ADC>`. ::

    from machine import ADC

    adc = ADC()
    apin = adc.channel(pin='GP3')
    apin() # read value, 0-4095

UART (serial bus)
-----------------

See :ref:`machine.UART <machine.UART>`. ::

    from machine import UART
    uart = UART(0, baudrate=9600)
    uart.write('hello')
    uart.read(5) # read up to 5 bytes

SPI bus
-------

See :ref:`machine.SPI <machine.SPI>`. ::

    from machine import SPI

    # configure the SPI master @ 2MHz
    spi = SPI(0, SPI.MASTER, baudrate=200000, polarity=0, phase=0)
    spi.write('hello')
    spi.read(5) # receive 5 bytes on the bus
    rbuf = bytearray(5)
    spi.write_readinto('hello', rbuf) # send and receive 5 bytes

I2C bus
-------

See :ref:`machine.I2C <machine.I2C>`. ::

    from machine import I2C
    # configure the I2C bus
    i2c = I2C(baudrate=100000)
    i2c.scan() # returns list of slave addresses
    i2c.writeto(0x42, 'hello') # send 5 bytes to slave with address 0x42
    i2c.readfrom(0x42, 5) # receive 5 bytes from slave
    i2c.readfrom_mem(0x42, 0x10, 2) # read 2 bytes from slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10
    i2c.writeto_mem(0x42, 0x10, 'xy') # write 2 bytes to slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10

Watchdog timer (WDT)
--------------------

See :ref:`machine.WDT <machine.WDT>`. ::

    from machine import WDT

    # enable the WDT with a timeout of 5s (1s is the minimum)
    wdt = WDT(timeout=5000)
    wdt.feed()

Real time clock (RTC)
---------------------

See :ref:`machine.RTC <machine.RTC>` ::

    from machine import RTC

    rtc = RTC() # init with default time and date
    rtc = RTC(datetime=(2015, 8, 29, 9, 0, 0, 0, None)) # init with a specific time and date
    print(rtc.now())

    def alarm_handler (rtc_o):
        pass
        # do some non blocking operations
        # warning printing on an irq via telnet is not
        # possible, only via UART 

    # create a RTC alarm that expires after 5 seconds
    rtc.alarm(time=5000, repeat=False)

    # enable RTC interrupts
    rtc_i = rtc.irq(trigger=RTC.ALARM0, handler=alarm_handler, wake=machine.SLEEP)

    # go into suspended mode waiting for the RTC alarm to expire and wake us up
    machine.sleep()

SD card
-------

See :ref:`machine.SD <machine.SD>`. ::

    from machine import SD
    import os

    # clock pin, cmd pin, data0 pin
    sd = SD(pins=('GP10', 'GP11', 'GP15'))
    # or use default ones for the expansion board
    sd = SD()
    os.mount(sd, '/sd')

WLAN (WiFi) 
-----------

See :ref:`network.WLAN <network.WLAN>` and :mod:`machine`. ::

    import machine
    from network import WLAN

    # configure the WLAN subsystem in station mode (the default is AP)
    wlan = WLAN(mode=WLAN.STA)
    # go for fixed IP settings
    wlan.ifconfig(config=('192.168.0.107', '255.255.255.0', '192.168.0.1', '8.8.8.8'))
    wlan.scan()     # scan for available networks
    wlan.connect(ssid='mynetwork', auth=(WLAN.WPA2, 'mynetworkkey'))
    while not wlan.isconnected():
        pass
    print(wlan.ifconfig())
    # enable wake on WLAN
    wlan.irq(trigger=WLAN.ANY_EVENT, wake=machine.SLEEP)
    # go to sleep
    machine.sleep()
    # now, connect to the FTP or the Telnet server and the WiPy will wake-up

Telnet and FTP server
---------------------

See :ref:`network.Server <network.Server>` ::

    from network import Server

    # init with new user, password and seconds timeout
    server = Server(login=('user', 'password'), timeout=60)
    server.timeout(300) # change the timeout
    server.timeout() # get the timeout
    server.isrunning() # check whether the server is running or not

Heart beat LED
--------------

See :mod:`wipy`. ::

    import wipy

    wipy.heartbeat(False)  # disable the heartbeat LED
    wipy.heartbeat(True)   # enable the heartbeat LED
    wipy.heartbeat()       # get the heartbeat state

Commit message:

docs: Unify all the ports into one set of documentation.
With this commit there is now only one entry point into the whole
documentation, which describes the general MicroPython language, and then
from there there are links to information about specific platforms/ports.

This commit doesn't change content (almost, it does fix a few internal
links), it just reorganises things.

docs/wipy/quickref.rst, after:

.. _wipy_quickref:

Quick reference for the WiPy
============================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wipy/wipy/master/docs/PinOUT.png
    :alt: WiPy pinout and alternate functions table
    :width: 800px

Below is a quick reference for CC3200/WiPy.  If it is your first time
working with this board please consider reading the following sections first:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   general.rst
   tutorial/index.rst

General board control (including sleep modes)
---------------------------------------------

See the :mod:`machine` module::

    import machine

    help(machine) # display all members from the machine module
    machine.freq() # get the CPU frequency
    machine.unique_id() # return the 6-byte unique id of the board (the WiPy's MAC address)

    machine.idle()        # average current decreases to (~12mA), any interrupts wake it up
    machine.sleep()       # everything except for WLAN is powered down (~950uA avg. current)
                          # wakes from Pin, RTC or WLAN
    machine.deepsleep()   # deepest sleep mode, MCU starts from reset. Wakes from Pin and RTC.

Pins and GPIO
-------------

See :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>`. ::

    from machine import Pin

    # initialize GP2 in gpio mode (alt=0) and make it an output
    p_out = Pin('GP2', mode=Pin.OUT)
    p_out.value(1)
    p_out.value(0)
    p_out.toggle()
    p_out(True)

    # make GP1 an input with the pull-up enabled
    p_in = Pin('GP1', mode=Pin.IN, pull=Pin.PULL_UP)
    p_in() # get value, 0 or 1

Timers
------

See :ref:`machine.TimerWiPy <machine.TimerWiPy>` and :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>`.
Timer ``id``'s take values from 0 to 3.::

    from machine import Timer
    from machine import Pin

    tim = Timer(0, mode=Timer.PERIODIC)
    tim_a = tim.channel(Timer.A, freq=1000)
    tim_a.freq(5) # 5 Hz
    
    p_out = Pin('GP2', mode=Pin.OUT)
    tim_a.irq(trigger=Timer.TIMEOUT, handler=lambda t: p_out.toggle())

PWM (pulse width modulation)
----------------------------

See :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>` and :ref:`machine.Timer <machine.Timer>`. ::

    from machine import Timer

    # timer 1 in PWM mode and width must be 16 buts
    tim = Timer(1, mode=Timer.PWM, width=16)
    
    # enable channel A @1KHz with a 50.55% duty cycle
    tim_a = tim.channel(Timer.A, freq=1000, duty_cycle=5055)

ADC (analog to digital conversion)
----------------------------------

See :ref:`machine.ADC <machine.ADC>`. ::

    from machine import ADC

    adc = ADC()
    apin = adc.channel(pin='GP3')
    apin() # read value, 0-4095

UART (serial bus)
-----------------

See :ref:`machine.UART <machine.UART>`. ::

    from machine import UART
    uart = UART(0, baudrate=9600)
    uart.write('hello')
    uart.read(5) # read up to 5 bytes

SPI bus
-------

See :ref:`machine.SPI <machine.SPI>`. ::

    from machine import SPI

    # configure the SPI master @ 2MHz
    spi = SPI(0, SPI.MASTER, baudrate=200000, polarity=0, phase=0)
    spi.write('hello')
    spi.read(5) # receive 5 bytes on the bus
    rbuf = bytearray(5)
    spi.write_readinto('hello', rbuf) # send and receive 5 bytes

I2C bus
-------

See :ref:`machine.I2C <machine.I2C>`. ::

    from machine import I2C
    # configure the I2C bus
    i2c = I2C(baudrate=100000)
    i2c.scan() # returns list of slave addresses
    i2c.writeto(0x42, 'hello') # send 5 bytes to slave with address 0x42
    i2c.readfrom(0x42, 5) # receive 5 bytes from slave
    i2c.readfrom_mem(0x42, 0x10, 2) # read 2 bytes from slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10
    i2c.writeto_mem(0x42, 0x10, 'xy') # write 2 bytes to slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10

Watchdog timer (WDT)
--------------------

See :ref:`machine.WDT <machine.WDT>`. ::

    from machine import WDT

    # enable the WDT with a timeout of 5s (1s is the minimum)
    wdt = WDT(timeout=5000)
    wdt.feed()

Real time clock (RTC)
---------------------

See :ref:`machine.RTC <machine.RTC>` ::

    from machine import RTC

    rtc = RTC() # init with default time and date
    rtc = RTC(datetime=(2015, 8, 29, 9, 0, 0, 0, None)) # init with a specific time and date
    print(rtc.now())

    def alarm_handler (rtc_o):
        pass
        # do some non blocking operations
        # warning printing on an irq via telnet is not
        # possible, only via UART 

    # create a RTC alarm that expires after 5 seconds
    rtc.alarm(time=5000, repeat=False)

    # enable RTC interrupts
    rtc_i = rtc.irq(trigger=RTC.ALARM0, handler=alarm_handler, wake=machine.SLEEP)

    # go into suspended mode waiting for the RTC alarm to expire and wake us up
    machine.sleep()

SD card
-------

See :ref:`machine.SD <machine.SD>`. ::

    from machine import SD
    import os

    # clock pin, cmd pin, data0 pin
    sd = SD(pins=('GP10', 'GP11', 'GP15'))
    # or use default ones for the expansion board
    sd = SD()
    os.mount(sd, '/sd')

WLAN (WiFi) 
-----------

See :ref:`network.WLAN <network.WLAN>` and :mod:`machine`. ::

    import machine
    from network import WLAN

    # configure the WLAN subsystem in station mode (the default is AP)
    wlan = WLAN(mode=WLAN.STA)
    # go for fixed IP settings
    wlan.ifconfig(config=('192.168.0.107', '255.255.255.0', '192.168.0.1', '8.8.8.8'))
    wlan.scan()     # scan for available networks
    wlan.connect(ssid='mynetwork', auth=(WLAN.WPA2, 'mynetworkkey'))
    while not wlan.isconnected():
        pass
    print(wlan.ifconfig())
    # enable wake on WLAN
    wlan.irq(trigger=WLAN.ANY_EVENT, wake=machine.SLEEP)
    # go to sleep
    machine.sleep()
    # now, connect to the FTP or the Telnet server and the WiPy will wake-up

Telnet and FTP server
---------------------

See :ref:`network.Server <network.Server>` ::

    from network import Server

    # init with new user, password and seconds timeout
    server = Server(login=('user', 'password'), timeout=60)
    server.timeout(300) # change the timeout
    server.timeout() # get the timeout
    server.isrunning() # check whether the server is running or not

Heart beat LED
--------------

See :mod:`wipy`. ::

    import wipy

    wipy.heartbeat(False)  # disable the heartbeat LED
    wipy.heartbeat(True)   # enable the heartbeat LED
    wipy.heartbeat()       # get the heartbeat state
