docs/esp32/quickref.rst, before:

.. _esp32_quickref:

Quick reference for the ESP32
=============================

.. image:: img/esp32.jpg
    :alt: ESP32 board
    :width: 640px

The Espressif ESP32 Development Board (image attribution: Adafruit).

Below is a quick reference for ESP32-based boards.  If it is your first time
working with this board it may be useful to get an overview of the microcontroller:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   general.rst
   tutorial/intro.rst

Installing MicroPython
----------------------

See the corresponding section of tutorial: :ref:`esp32_intro`. It also includes
a troubleshooting subsection.

General board control
---------------------

The MicroPython REPL is on UART0 (GPIO1=TX, GPIO3=RX) at baudrate 115200.
Tab-completion is useful to find out what methods an object has.
Paste mode (ctrl-E) is useful to paste a large slab of Python code into
the REPL.

The :mod:`machine` module::

    import machine

    machine.freq()          # get the current frequency of the CPU
    machine.freq(240000000) # set the CPU frequency to 240 MHz

The :mod:`esp` module::

    import esp

    esp.osdebug(None)       # turn off vendor O/S debugging messages
    esp.osdebug(0)          # redirect vendor O/S debugging messages to UART(0)

    # low level methods to interact with flash storage
    esp.flash_size()
    esp.flash_user_start()
    esp.flash_erase(sector_no)
    esp.flash_write(byte_offset, buffer)
    esp.flash_read(byte_offset, buffer)

The :mod:`esp32` module::

    import esp32

    esp32.hall_sensor()     # read the internal hall sensor
    esp32.raw_temperature() # read the internal temperature of the MCU, in Farenheit
    esp32.ULP()             # access to the Ultra-Low-Power Co-processor

Note that the temperature sensor in the ESP32 will typically read higher than
ambient due to the IC getting warm while it runs.  This effect can be minimised
by reading the temperature sensor immediately after waking up from sleep.

Networking
----------

The :mod:`network` module::

    import network

    wlan = network.WLAN(network.STA_IF) # create station interface
    wlan.active(True)       # activate the interface
    wlan.scan()             # scan for access points
    wlan.isconnected()      # check if the station is connected to an AP
    wlan.connect('essid', 'password') # connect to an AP
    wlan.config('mac')      # get the interface's MAC adddress
    wlan.ifconfig()         # get the interface's IP/netmask/gw/DNS addresses

    ap = network.WLAN(network.AP_IF) # create access-point interface
    ap.config(essid='ESP-AP') # set the ESSID of the access point
    ap.active(True)         # activate the interface

A useful function for connecting to your local WiFi network is::

    def do_connect():
        import network
        wlan = network.WLAN(network.STA_IF)
        wlan.active(True)
        if not wlan.isconnected():
            print('connecting to network...')
            wlan.connect('essid', 'password')
            while not wlan.isconnected():
                pass
        print('network config:', wlan.ifconfig())

Once the network is established the :mod:`socket <usocket>` module can be used
to create and use TCP/UDP sockets as usual, and the ``urequests`` module for
convenient HTTP requests.

Delay and timing
----------------

Use the :mod:`time <utime>` module::

    import time

    time.sleep(1)           # sleep for 1 second
    time.sleep_ms(500)      # sleep for 500 milliseconds
    time.sleep_us(10)       # sleep for 10 microseconds
    start = time.ticks_ms() # get millisecond counter
    delta = time.ticks_diff(time.ticks_ms(), start) # compute time difference

Timers
------

Virtual (RTOS-based) timers are supported. Use the :ref:`machine.Timer <machine.Timer>` class
with timer ID of -1::

    from machine import Timer

    tim = Timer(-1)
    tim.init(period=5000, mode=Timer.ONE_SHOT, callback=lambda t:print(1))
    tim.init(period=2000, mode=Timer.PERIODIC, callback=lambda t:print(2))

The period is in milliseconds.

Pins and GPIO
-------------

Use the :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>` class::

    from machine import Pin

    p0 = Pin(0, Pin.OUT)    # create output pin on GPIO0
    p0.on()                 # set pin to "on" (high) level
    p0.off()                # set pin to "off" (low) level
    p0.value(1)             # set pin to on/high

    p2 = Pin(2, Pin.IN)     # create input pin on GPIO2
    print(p2.value())       # get value, 0 or 1

    p4 = Pin(4, Pin.IN, Pin.PULL_UP) # enable internal pull-up resistor
    p5 = Pin(5, Pin.OUT, value=1) # set pin high on creation

Available Pins are from the following ranges (inclusive): 0-19, 21-23, 25-27, 32-39.
These correspond to the actual GPIO pin numbers of ESP32 chip.  Note that many
end-user boards use their own adhoc pin numbering (marked e.g. D0, D1, ...).
For mapping between board logical pins and physical chip pins consult your board
documentation.

Notes:

* Pins 1 and 3 are REPL UART TX and RX respectively

* Pins 6, 7, 8, 11, 16, and 17 are used for connecting the embedded flash,
  and are not recommended for other uses

* Pins 34-39 are input only, and also do not have internal pull-up resistors

* The pull value of some pins can be set to ``Pin.PULL_HOLD`` to reduce power
  consumption during deepsleep.

PWM (pulse width modulation)
----------------------------

PWM can be enabled on all output-enabled pins. The base frequency can
range from 1Hz to 40MHz but there is a tradeoff; as the base frequency
*increases* the duty resolution *decreases*. See 
`LED Control <https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/api-reference/peripherals/ledc.html>`_
for more details.

Use the ``machine.PWM`` class::

    from machine import Pin, PWM

    pwm0 = PWM(Pin(0))      # create PWM object from a pin
    pwm0.freq()             # get current frequency
    pwm0.freq(1000)         # set frequency
    pwm0.duty()             # get current duty cycle
    pwm0.duty(200)          # set duty cycle
    pwm0.deinit()           # turn off PWM on the pin

    pwm2 = PWM(Pin(2), freq=20000, duty=512) # create and configure in one go

ADC (analog to digital conversion)
----------------------------------

On the ESP32 ADC functionality is available on Pins 32-39. Note that, when
using the default configuration, input voltages on the ADC pin must be between
0.0v and 1.0v (anything above 1.0v will just read as 4095).  Attenuation must
be applied in order to increase this usable voltage range.

Use the :ref:`machine.ADC <machine.ADC>` class::

    from machine import ADC

    adc = ADC(Pin(32))          # create ADC object on ADC pin
    adc.read()                  # read value, 0-4095 across voltage range 0.0v - 1.0v

    adc.atten(ADC.ATTN_11DB)    # set 11dB input attentuation (voltage range roughly 0.0v - 3.6v)
    adc.width(ADC.WIDTH_9BIT)   # set 9 bit return values (returned range 0-511)
    adc.read()                  # read value using the newly configured attenuation and width

ESP32 specific ADC class method reference:

.. method:: ADC.atten(attenuation)

    This method allows for the setting of the amount of attenuation on the
    input of the ADC. This allows for a wider possible input voltage range,
    at the cost of accuracy (the same number of bits now represents a wider
    range). The possible attenuation options are:

      - ``ADC.ATTN_0DB``: 0dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of 1.00v - this is the default configuration
      - ``ADC.ATTN_2_5DB``: 2.5dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of approximately 1.34v
      - ``ADC.ATTN_6DB``: 6dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of approximately 2.00v
      - ``ADC.ATTN_11DB``: 11dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of approximately 3.6v

.. Warning::
   Despite 11dB attenuation allowing for up to a 3.6v range, note that the
   absolute maximum voltage rating for the input pins is 3.6v, and so going
   near this boundary may be damaging to the IC!

.. method:: ADC.width(width)

    This method allows for the setting of the number of bits to be utilised
    and returned during ADC reads. Possible width options are:

      - ``ADC.WIDTH_9BIT``: 9 bit data
      - ``ADC.WIDTH_10BIT``: 10 bit data
      - ``ADC.WIDTH_11BIT``: 11 bit data
      - ``ADC.WIDTH_12BIT``: 12 bit data - this is the default configuration

Software SPI bus
----------------

There are two SPI drivers. One is implemented in software (bit-banging)
and works on all pins, and is accessed via the :ref:`machine.SPI <machine.SPI>`
class::

    from machine import Pin, SPI

    # construct an SPI bus on the given pins
    # polarity is the idle state of SCK
    # phase=0 means sample on the first edge of SCK, phase=1 means the second
    spi = SPI(baudrate=100000, polarity=1, phase=0, sck=Pin(0), mosi=Pin(2), miso=Pin(4))

    spi.init(baudrate=200000) # set the baudrate

    spi.read(10)            # read 10 bytes on MISO
    spi.read(10, 0xff)      # read 10 bytes while outputing 0xff on MOSI

    buf = bytearray(50)     # create a buffer
    spi.readinto(buf)       # read into the given buffer (reads 50 bytes in this case)
    spi.readinto(buf, 0xff) # read into the given buffer and output 0xff on MOSI

    spi.write(b'12345')     # write 5 bytes on MOSI

    buf = bytearray(4)      # create a buffer
    spi.write_readinto(b'1234', buf) # write to MOSI and read from MISO into the buffer
    spi.write_readinto(buf, buf) # write buf to MOSI and read MISO back into buf

.. Warning::
   Currently *all* of ``sck``, ``mosi`` and ``miso`` *must* be specified when
   initialising Software SPI. 

Hardware SPI bus
----------------

There are two hardware SPI channels that allow faster (up to 80Mhz)
transmission rates, but are only supported on a subset of pins.

=====  ===========  ============
\      HSPI (id=1)   VSPI (id=2)
=====  ===========  ============
sck    14           18
mosi   13           23
miso   12           19
=====  ===========  ============

Hardware SPI has the same methods as Software SPI above::

    from machine import Pin, SPI

    hspi = SPI(1, 10000000, sck=Pin(14), mosi=Pin(13), miso=Pin(12))
    vspi = SPI(2, baudrate=80000000, polarity=0, phase=0, bits=8, firstbit=0, sck=Pin(18), mosi=Pin(23), miso=Pin(19))


I2C bus
-------

The I2C driver is implemented in software and works on all pins,
and is accessed via the :ref:`machine.I2C <machine.I2C>` class::

    from machine import Pin, I2C

    # construct an I2C bus
    i2c = I2C(scl=Pin(5), sda=Pin(4), freq=100000)

    i2c.readfrom(0x3a, 4)   # read 4 bytes from slave device with address 0x3a
    i2c.writeto(0x3a, '12') # write '12' to slave device with address 0x3a

    buf = bytearray(10)     # create a buffer with 10 bytes
    i2c.writeto(0x3a, buf)  # write the given buffer to the slave

Real time clock (RTC)
---------------------

See :ref:`machine.RTC <machine.RTC>` ::

    from machine import RTC

    rtc = RTC()
    rtc.datetime((2017, 8, 23, 1, 12, 48, 0, 0)) # set a specific date and time
    rtc.datetime() # get date and time

Deep-sleep mode
---------------

The following code can be used to sleep, wake and check the reset cause::

    import machine

    # check if the device woke from a deep sleep
    if machine.reset_cause() == machine.DEEPSLEEP_RESET:
        print('woke from a deep sleep')

    # put the device to sleep for 10 seconds
    machine.deepsleep(10000)

Notes:

* Calling ``deepsleep()`` without an argument will put the device to sleep
  indefinitely
* A software reset does not change the reset cause

OneWire driver
--------------

The OneWire driver is implemented in software and works on all pins::

    from machine import Pin
    import onewire

    ow = onewire.OneWire(Pin(12)) # create a OneWire bus on GPIO12
    ow.scan()               # return a list of devices on the bus
    ow.reset()              # reset the bus
    ow.readbyte()           # read a byte
    ow.writebyte(0x12)      # write a byte on the bus
    ow.write('123')         # write bytes on the bus
    ow.select_rom(b'12345678') # select a specific device by its ROM code

There is a specific driver for DS18S20 and DS18B20 devices::

    import time, ds18x20
    ds = ds18x20.DS18X20(ow)
    roms = ds.scan()
    ds.convert_temp()
    time.sleep_ms(750)
    for rom in roms:
        print(ds.read_temp(rom))

Be sure to put a 4.7k pull-up resistor on the data line.  Note that
the ``convert_temp()`` method must be called each time you want to
sample the temperature.

NeoPixel driver
---------------

Use the ``neopixel`` module::

    from machine import Pin
    from neopixel import NeoPixel

    pin = Pin(0, Pin.OUT)   # set GPIO0 to output to drive NeoPixels
    np = NeoPixel(pin, 8)   # create NeoPixel driver on GPIO0 for 8 pixels
    np[0] = (255, 255, 255) # set the first pixel to white
    np.write()              # write data to all pixels
    r, g, b = np[0]         # get first pixel colour

For low-level driving of a NeoPixel::

    import esp
    esp.neopixel_write(pin, grb_buf, is800khz)

.. Warning::
   By default ``NeoPixel`` is configured to control the more popular *800kHz*
   units. It is possible to use alternative timing to control other (typically
   400kHz) devices by passing ``timing=0`` when constructing the
   ``NeoPixel`` object.


Capacitive Touch
----------------

Use the ``TouchPad`` class in the ``machine`` module::

    from machine import TouchPad, Pin

    t = TouchPad(Pin(14))
    t.read()              # Returns a smaller number when touched 

``TouchPad.read`` returns a value relative to the capacitive variation. Small numbers (typically in
the *tens*) are common when a pin is touched, larger numbers (above *one thousand*) when 
no touch is present. However the values are *relative* and can vary depending on the board 
and surrounding composition so some calibration may be required.

There are ten capacitive touch-enabled pins that can be used on the ESP32: 0, 2, 4, 12, 13
14, 15, 27, 32, 33. Trying to assign to any other pins will result in a ``ValueError``.

Note that TouchPads can be used to wake an ESP32 from sleep::

    import machine
    from machine import TouchPad, Pin
    import esp32

    t = TouchPad(Pin(14))
    t.config(500)               # configure the threshold at which the pin is considered touched
    esp32.wake_on_touch(True)
    machine.lightsleep()        # put the MCU to sleep until a touchpad is touched

For more details on touchpads refer to `Espressif Touch Sensor
<https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/api-reference/peripherals/touch_pad.html>`_.


DHT driver
----------

The DHT driver is implemented in software and works on all pins::

    import dht
    import machine

    d = dht.DHT11(machine.Pin(4))
    d.measure()
    d.temperature() # eg. 23 (°C)
    d.humidity()    # eg. 41 (% RH)

    d = dht.DHT22(machine.Pin(4))
    d.measure()
    d.temperature() # eg. 23.6 (°C)
    d.humidity()    # eg. 41.3 (% RH)

WebREPL (web browser interactive prompt)
----------------------------------------

WebREPL (REPL over WebSockets, accessible via a web browser) is an
experimental feature available in ESP32 port. Download web client
from https://github.com/micropython/webrepl (hosted version available
at http://micropython.org/webrepl), and configure it by executing::

    import webrepl_setup

and following on-screen instructions. After reboot, it will be available
for connection. If you disabled automatic start-up on boot, you may
run configured daemon on demand using::

    import webrepl
    webrepl.start()

    # or, start with a specific password
    webrepl.start(password='mypass')

The WebREPL daemon listens on all active interfaces, which can be STA or
AP.  This allows you to connect to the ESP32 via a router (the STA
interface) or directly when connected to its access point.

In addition to terminal/command prompt access, WebREPL also has provision
for file transfer (both upload and download).  The web client has buttons for
the corresponding functions, or you can use the command-line client
``webrepl_cli.py`` from the repository above.

See the MicroPython forum for other community-supported alternatives
to transfer files to an ESP32 board.

Commit message:

docs/esp32: Add example for pin isolation in combination with deepsleep.

docs/esp32/quickref.rst, after:

.. _esp32_quickref:

Quick reference for the ESP32
=============================

.. image:: img/esp32.jpg
    :alt: ESP32 board
    :width: 640px

The Espressif ESP32 Development Board (image attribution: Adafruit).

Below is a quick reference for ESP32-based boards.  If it is your first time
working with this board it may be useful to get an overview of the microcontroller:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   general.rst
   tutorial/intro.rst

Installing MicroPython
----------------------

See the corresponding section of tutorial: :ref:`esp32_intro`. It also includes
a troubleshooting subsection.

General board control
---------------------

The MicroPython REPL is on UART0 (GPIO1=TX, GPIO3=RX) at baudrate 115200.
Tab-completion is useful to find out what methods an object has.
Paste mode (ctrl-E) is useful to paste a large slab of Python code into
the REPL.

The :mod:`machine` module::

    import machine

    machine.freq()          # get the current frequency of the CPU
    machine.freq(240000000) # set the CPU frequency to 240 MHz

The :mod:`esp` module::

    import esp

    esp.osdebug(None)       # turn off vendor O/S debugging messages
    esp.osdebug(0)          # redirect vendor O/S debugging messages to UART(0)

    # low level methods to interact with flash storage
    esp.flash_size()
    esp.flash_user_start()
    esp.flash_erase(sector_no)
    esp.flash_write(byte_offset, buffer)
    esp.flash_read(byte_offset, buffer)

The :mod:`esp32` module::

    import esp32

    esp32.hall_sensor()     # read the internal hall sensor
    esp32.raw_temperature() # read the internal temperature of the MCU, in Farenheit
    esp32.ULP()             # access to the Ultra-Low-Power Co-processor

Note that the temperature sensor in the ESP32 will typically read higher than
ambient due to the IC getting warm while it runs.  This effect can be minimised
by reading the temperature sensor immediately after waking up from sleep.

Networking
----------

The :mod:`network` module::

    import network

    wlan = network.WLAN(network.STA_IF) # create station interface
    wlan.active(True)       # activate the interface
    wlan.scan()             # scan for access points
    wlan.isconnected()      # check if the station is connected to an AP
    wlan.connect('essid', 'password') # connect to an AP
    wlan.config('mac')      # get the interface's MAC adddress
    wlan.ifconfig()         # get the interface's IP/netmask/gw/DNS addresses

    ap = network.WLAN(network.AP_IF) # create access-point interface
    ap.config(essid='ESP-AP') # set the ESSID of the access point
    ap.active(True)         # activate the interface

A useful function for connecting to your local WiFi network is::

    def do_connect():
        import network
        wlan = network.WLAN(network.STA_IF)
        wlan.active(True)
        if not wlan.isconnected():
            print('connecting to network...')
            wlan.connect('essid', 'password')
            while not wlan.isconnected():
                pass
        print('network config:', wlan.ifconfig())

Once the network is established the :mod:`socket <usocket>` module can be used
to create and use TCP/UDP sockets as usual, and the ``urequests`` module for
convenient HTTP requests.

Delay and timing
----------------

Use the :mod:`time <utime>` module::

    import time

    time.sleep(1)           # sleep for 1 second
    time.sleep_ms(500)      # sleep for 500 milliseconds
    time.sleep_us(10)       # sleep for 10 microseconds
    start = time.ticks_ms() # get millisecond counter
    delta = time.ticks_diff(time.ticks_ms(), start) # compute time difference

Timers
------

Virtual (RTOS-based) timers are supported. Use the :ref:`machine.Timer <machine.Timer>` class
with timer ID of -1::

    from machine import Timer

    tim = Timer(-1)
    tim.init(period=5000, mode=Timer.ONE_SHOT, callback=lambda t:print(1))
    tim.init(period=2000, mode=Timer.PERIODIC, callback=lambda t:print(2))

The period is in milliseconds.

Pins and GPIO
-------------

Use the :ref:`machine.Pin <machine.Pin>` class::

    from machine import Pin

    p0 = Pin(0, Pin.OUT)    # create output pin on GPIO0
    p0.on()                 # set pin to "on" (high) level
    p0.off()                # set pin to "off" (low) level
    p0.value(1)             # set pin to on/high

    p2 = Pin(2, Pin.IN)     # create input pin on GPIO2
    print(p2.value())       # get value, 0 or 1

    p4 = Pin(4, Pin.IN, Pin.PULL_UP) # enable internal pull-up resistor
    p5 = Pin(5, Pin.OUT, value=1) # set pin high on creation

Available Pins are from the following ranges (inclusive): 0-19, 21-23, 25-27, 32-39.
These correspond to the actual GPIO pin numbers of ESP32 chip.  Note that many
end-user boards use their own adhoc pin numbering (marked e.g. D0, D1, ...).
For mapping between board logical pins and physical chip pins consult your board
documentation.

Notes:

* Pins 1 and 3 are REPL UART TX and RX respectively

* Pins 6, 7, 8, 11, 16, and 17 are used for connecting the embedded flash,
  and are not recommended for other uses

* Pins 34-39 are input only, and also do not have internal pull-up resistors

* The pull value of some pins can be set to ``Pin.PULL_HOLD`` to reduce power
  consumption during deepsleep.

PWM (pulse width modulation)
----------------------------

PWM can be enabled on all output-enabled pins. The base frequency can
range from 1Hz to 40MHz but there is a tradeoff; as the base frequency
*increases* the duty resolution *decreases*. See 
`LED Control <https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/api-reference/peripherals/ledc.html>`_
for more details.

Use the ``machine.PWM`` class::

    from machine import Pin, PWM

    pwm0 = PWM(Pin(0))      # create PWM object from a pin
    pwm0.freq()             # get current frequency
    pwm0.freq(1000)         # set frequency
    pwm0.duty()             # get current duty cycle
    pwm0.duty(200)          # set duty cycle
    pwm0.deinit()           # turn off PWM on the pin

    pwm2 = PWM(Pin(2), freq=20000, duty=512) # create and configure in one go

ADC (analog to digital conversion)
----------------------------------

On the ESP32 ADC functionality is available on Pins 32-39. Note that, when
using the default configuration, input voltages on the ADC pin must be between
0.0v and 1.0v (anything above 1.0v will just read as 4095).  Attenuation must
be applied in order to increase this usable voltage range.

Use the :ref:`machine.ADC <machine.ADC>` class::

    from machine import ADC

    adc = ADC(Pin(32))          # create ADC object on ADC pin
    adc.read()                  # read value, 0-4095 across voltage range 0.0v - 1.0v

    adc.atten(ADC.ATTN_11DB)    # set 11dB input attentuation (voltage range roughly 0.0v - 3.6v)
    adc.width(ADC.WIDTH_9BIT)   # set 9 bit return values (returned range 0-511)
    adc.read()                  # read value using the newly configured attenuation and width

ESP32 specific ADC class method reference:

.. method:: ADC.atten(attenuation)

    This method allows for the setting of the amount of attenuation on the
    input of the ADC. This allows for a wider possible input voltage range,
    at the cost of accuracy (the same number of bits now represents a wider
    range). The possible attenuation options are:

      - ``ADC.ATTN_0DB``: 0dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of 1.00v - this is the default configuration
      - ``ADC.ATTN_2_5DB``: 2.5dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of approximately 1.34v
      - ``ADC.ATTN_6DB``: 6dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of approximately 2.00v
      - ``ADC.ATTN_11DB``: 11dB attenuation, gives a maximum input voltage
        of approximately 3.6v

.. Warning::
   Despite 11dB attenuation allowing for up to a 3.6v range, note that the
   absolute maximum voltage rating for the input pins is 3.6v, and so going
   near this boundary may be damaging to the IC!

.. method:: ADC.width(width)

    This method allows for the setting of the number of bits to be utilised
    and returned during ADC reads. Possible width options are:

      - ``ADC.WIDTH_9BIT``: 9 bit data
      - ``ADC.WIDTH_10BIT``: 10 bit data
      - ``ADC.WIDTH_11BIT``: 11 bit data
      - ``ADC.WIDTH_12BIT``: 12 bit data - this is the default configuration

Software SPI bus
----------------

There are two SPI drivers. One is implemented in software (bit-banging)
and works on all pins, and is accessed via the :ref:`machine.SPI <machine.SPI>`
class::

    from machine import Pin, SPI

    # construct an SPI bus on the given pins
    # polarity is the idle state of SCK
    # phase=0 means sample on the first edge of SCK, phase=1 means the second
    spi = SPI(baudrate=100000, polarity=1, phase=0, sck=Pin(0), mosi=Pin(2), miso=Pin(4))

    spi.init(baudrate=200000) # set the baudrate

    spi.read(10)            # read 10 bytes on MISO
    spi.read(10, 0xff)      # read 10 bytes while outputing 0xff on MOSI

    buf = bytearray(50)     # create a buffer
    spi.readinto(buf)       # read into the given buffer (reads 50 bytes in this case)
    spi.readinto(buf, 0xff) # read into the given buffer and output 0xff on MOSI

    spi.write(b'12345')     # write 5 bytes on MOSI

    buf = bytearray(4)      # create a buffer
    spi.write_readinto(b'1234', buf) # write to MOSI and read from MISO into the buffer
    spi.write_readinto(buf, buf) # write buf to MOSI and read MISO back into buf

.. Warning::
   Currently *all* of ``sck``, ``mosi`` and ``miso`` *must* be specified when
   initialising Software SPI. 

Hardware SPI bus
----------------

There are two hardware SPI channels that allow faster (up to 80Mhz)
transmission rates, but are only supported on a subset of pins.

=====  ===========  ============
\      HSPI (id=1)   VSPI (id=2)
=====  ===========  ============
sck    14           18
mosi   13           23
miso   12           19
=====  ===========  ============

Hardware SPI has the same methods as Software SPI above::

    from machine import Pin, SPI

    hspi = SPI(1, 10000000, sck=Pin(14), mosi=Pin(13), miso=Pin(12))
    vspi = SPI(2, baudrate=80000000, polarity=0, phase=0, bits=8, firstbit=0, sck=Pin(18), mosi=Pin(23), miso=Pin(19))


I2C bus
-------

The I2C driver is implemented in software and works on all pins,
and is accessed via the :ref:`machine.I2C <machine.I2C>` class::

    from machine import Pin, I2C

    # construct an I2C bus
    i2c = I2C(scl=Pin(5), sda=Pin(4), freq=100000)

    i2c.readfrom(0x3a, 4)   # read 4 bytes from slave device with address 0x3a
    i2c.writeto(0x3a, '12') # write '12' to slave device with address 0x3a

    buf = bytearray(10)     # create a buffer with 10 bytes
    i2c.writeto(0x3a, buf)  # write the given buffer to the slave

Real time clock (RTC)
---------------------

See :ref:`machine.RTC <machine.RTC>` ::

    from machine import RTC

    rtc = RTC()
    rtc.datetime((2017, 8, 23, 1, 12, 48, 0, 0)) # set a specific date and time
    rtc.datetime() # get date and time

Deep-sleep mode
---------------

The following code can be used to sleep, wake and check the reset cause::

    import machine

    # check if the device woke from a deep sleep
    if machine.reset_cause() == machine.DEEPSLEEP_RESET:
        print('woke from a deep sleep')

    # put the device to sleep for 10 seconds
    machine.deepsleep(10000)

Notes:

* Calling ``deepsleep()`` without an argument will put the device to sleep
  indefinitely
* A software reset does not change the reset cause
* There may be some leakage current flowing through enabled internal pullups.
  To further reduce power consumption it is possible to disable the internal pullups::

    p1 = Pin(4, Pin.IN, Pin.PULL_HOLD)
    
  After leaving deepsleep it may be necessary to un-hold the pin explicitly (e.g. if
  it is an output pin) via::
    
    p1 = Pin(4, Pin.OUT, None)

OneWire driver
--------------

The OneWire driver is implemented in software and works on all pins::

    from machine import Pin
    import onewire

    ow = onewire.OneWire(Pin(12)) # create a OneWire bus on GPIO12
    ow.scan()               # return a list of devices on the bus
    ow.reset()              # reset the bus
    ow.readbyte()           # read a byte
    ow.writebyte(0x12)      # write a byte on the bus
    ow.write('123')         # write bytes on the bus
    ow.select_rom(b'12345678') # select a specific device by its ROM code

There is a specific driver for DS18S20 and DS18B20 devices::

    import time, ds18x20
    ds = ds18x20.DS18X20(ow)
    roms = ds.scan()
    ds.convert_temp()
    time.sleep_ms(750)
    for rom in roms:
        print(ds.read_temp(rom))

Be sure to put a 4.7k pull-up resistor on the data line.  Note that
the ``convert_temp()`` method must be called each time you want to
sample the temperature.

NeoPixel driver
---------------

Use the ``neopixel`` module::

    from machine import Pin
    from neopixel import NeoPixel

    pin = Pin(0, Pin.OUT)   # set GPIO0 to output to drive NeoPixels
    np = NeoPixel(pin, 8)   # create NeoPixel driver on GPIO0 for 8 pixels
    np[0] = (255, 255, 255) # set the first pixel to white
    np.write()              # write data to all pixels
    r, g, b = np[0]         # get first pixel colour

For low-level driving of a NeoPixel::

    import esp
    esp.neopixel_write(pin, grb_buf, is800khz)

.. Warning::
   By default ``NeoPixel`` is configured to control the more popular *800kHz*
   units. It is possible to use alternative timing to control other (typically
   400kHz) devices by passing ``timing=0`` when constructing the
   ``NeoPixel`` object.


Capacitive Touch
----------------

Use the ``TouchPad`` class in the ``machine`` module::

    from machine import TouchPad, Pin

    t = TouchPad(Pin(14))
    t.read()              # Returns a smaller number when touched 

``TouchPad.read`` returns a value relative to the capacitive variation. Small numbers (typically in
the *tens*) are common when a pin is touched, larger numbers (above *one thousand*) when 
no touch is present. However the values are *relative* and can vary depending on the board 
and surrounding composition so some calibration may be required.

There are ten capacitive touch-enabled pins that can be used on the ESP32: 0, 2, 4, 12, 13
14, 15, 27, 32, 33. Trying to assign to any other pins will result in a ``ValueError``.

Note that TouchPads can be used to wake an ESP32 from sleep::

    import machine
    from machine import TouchPad, Pin
    import esp32

    t = TouchPad(Pin(14))
    t.config(500)               # configure the threshold at which the pin is considered touched
    esp32.wake_on_touch(True)
    machine.lightsleep()        # put the MCU to sleep until a touchpad is touched

For more details on touchpads refer to `Espressif Touch Sensor
<https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/api-reference/peripherals/touch_pad.html>`_.


DHT driver
----------

The DHT driver is implemented in software and works on all pins::

    import dht
    import machine

    d = dht.DHT11(machine.Pin(4))
    d.measure()
    d.temperature() # eg. 23 (°C)
    d.humidity()    # eg. 41 (% RH)

    d = dht.DHT22(machine.Pin(4))
    d.measure()
    d.temperature() # eg. 23.6 (°C)
    d.humidity()    # eg. 41.3 (% RH)

WebREPL (web browser interactive prompt)
----------------------------------------

WebREPL (REPL over WebSockets, accessible via a web browser) is an
experimental feature available in ESP32 port. Download web client
from https://github.com/micropython/webrepl (hosted version available
at http://micropython.org/webrepl), and configure it by executing::

    import webrepl_setup

and following on-screen instructions. After reboot, it will be available
for connection. If you disabled automatic start-up on boot, you may
run configured daemon on demand using::

    import webrepl
    webrepl.start()

    # or, start with a specific password
    webrepl.start(password='mypass')

The WebREPL daemon listens on all active interfaces, which can be STA or
AP.  This allows you to connect to the ESP32 via a router (the STA
interface) or directly when connected to its access point.

In addition to terminal/command prompt access, WebREPL also has provision
for file transfer (both upload and download).  The web client has buttons for
the corresponding functions, or you can use the command-line client
``webrepl_cli.py`` from the repository above.

See the MicroPython forum for other community-supported alternatives
to transfer files to an ESP32 board.
