docs/pyboard/quickref.rst, before:

.. _quickref:

Quick reference for the pyboard
===============================

The below pinout is for PYBv1.0.  You can also view pinouts for
other versions of the pyboard:
`PYBv1.1 <http://micropython.org/resources/pybv11-pinout.jpg>`__
or `PYBLITEv1.0-AC <http://micropython.org/resources/pyblitev10ac-pinout.jpg>`__
or `PYBLITEv1.0 <http://micropython.org/resources/pyblitev10-pinout.jpg>`__.

.. only:: not latex

   .. image:: http://micropython.org/resources/pybv10-pinout.jpg
      :alt: PYBv1.0 pinout
      :width: 700px

.. only:: latex

   .. image:: http://micropython.org/resources/pybv10-pinout-800px.jpg
      :alt: PYBv1.0 pinout

General board control
---------------------

See :mod:`pyb`. ::

    import pyb

    pyb.repl_uart(pyb.UART(1, 9600)) # duplicate REPL on UART(1)
    pyb.wfi() # pause CPU, waiting for interrupt
    pyb.freq() # get CPU and bus frequencies
    pyb.freq(60000000) # set CPU freq to 60MHz
    pyb.stop() # stop CPU, waiting for external interrupt

Delay and timing
----------------

Use the :mod:`time <utime>` module::

    import time

    time.sleep(1)           # sleep for 1 second
    time.sleep_ms(500)      # sleep for 500 milliseconds
    time.sleep_us(10)       # sleep for 10 microseconds
    start = time.ticks_ms() # get value of millisecond counter
    delta = time.ticks_diff(time.ticks_ms(), start) # compute time difference

Internal LEDs
-------------

See :ref:`pyb.LED <pyb.LED>`. ::

    from pyb import LED

    led = LED(1) # 1=red, 2=green, 3=yellow, 4=blue
    led.toggle()
    led.on()
    led.off()
    
    # LEDs 3 and 4 support PWM intensity (0-255)
    LED(4).intensity()    # get intensity
    LED(4).intensity(128) # set intensity to half

Internal switch
---------------

See :ref:`pyb.Switch <pyb.Switch>`. ::

    from pyb import Switch

    sw = Switch()
    sw.value() # returns True or False
    sw.callback(lambda: pyb.LED(1).toggle())

Pins and GPIO
-------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin

    p_out = Pin('X1', Pin.OUT_PP)
    p_out.high()
    p_out.low()

    p_in = Pin('X2', Pin.IN, Pin.PULL_UP)
    p_in.value() # get value, 0 or 1

Servo control
-------------

See :ref:`pyb.Servo <pyb.Servo>`. ::

    from pyb import Servo

    s1 = Servo(1) # servo on position 1 (X1, VIN, GND)
    s1.angle(45) # move to 45 degrees
    s1.angle(-60, 1500) # move to -60 degrees in 1500ms
    s1.speed(50) # for continuous rotation servos

External interrupts
-------------------

See :ref:`pyb.ExtInt <pyb.ExtInt>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, ExtInt

    callback = lambda e: print("intr")
    ext = ExtInt(Pin('Y1'), ExtInt.IRQ_RISING, Pin.PULL_NONE, callback)

Timers
------

See :ref:`pyb.Timer <pyb.Timer>`. ::

    from pyb import Timer

    tim = Timer(1, freq=1000)
    tim.counter() # get counter value
    tim.freq(0.5) # 0.5 Hz
    tim.callback(lambda t: pyb.LED(1).toggle())

RTC (real time clock)
---------------------

See :ref:`pyb.RTC <pyb.RTC>` ::

    from pyb import RTC

    rtc = RTC()
    rtc.datetime((2017, 8, 23, 1, 12, 48, 0, 0)) # set a specific date and time
    rtc.datetime() # get date and time

PWM (pulse width modulation)
----------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>` and :ref:`pyb.Timer <pyb.Timer>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, Timer

    p = Pin('X1') # X1 has TIM2, CH1
    tim = Timer(2, freq=1000)
    ch = tim.channel(1, Timer.PWM, pin=p)
    ch.pulse_width_percent(50)

ADC (analog to digital conversion)
----------------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>` and :ref:`pyb.ADC <pyb.ADC>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, ADC

    adc = ADC(Pin('X19'))
    adc.read() # read value, 0-4095

DAC (digital to analog conversion)
----------------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>` and :ref:`pyb.DAC <pyb.DAC>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, DAC

    dac = DAC(Pin('X5'))
    dac.write(120) # output between 0 and 255

UART (serial bus)
-----------------

See :ref:`pyb.UART <pyb.UART>`. ::

    from pyb import UART

    uart = UART(1, 9600)
    uart.write('hello')
    uart.read(5) # read up to 5 bytes

SPI bus
-------

See :ref:`pyb.SPI <pyb.SPI>`. ::

    from pyb import SPI

    spi = SPI(1, SPI.MASTER, baudrate=200000, polarity=1, phase=0)
    spi.send('hello')
    spi.recv(5) # receive 5 bytes on the bus
    spi.send_recv('hello') # send and receive 5 bytes

I2C bus
-------

See :ref:`pyb.I2C <pyb.I2C>`. ::

    from pyb import I2C

    i2c = I2C(1, I2C.MASTER, baudrate=100000)
    i2c.scan() # returns list of slave addresses
    i2c.send('hello', 0x42) # send 5 bytes to slave with address 0x42
    i2c.recv(5, 0x42) # receive 5 bytes from slave
    i2c.mem_read(2, 0x42, 0x10) # read 2 bytes from slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10
    i2c.mem_write('xy', 0x42, 0x10) # write 2 bytes to slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10

CAN bus (controller area network)
---------------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.CAN <pyb.CAN>`. ::

    from pyb import CAN

    can = CAN(1, CAN.LOOPBACK)
    can.setfilter(0, CAN.LIST16, 0, (123, 124, 125, 126))
    can.send('message!', 123)   # send a message with id 123
    can.recv(0)                 # receive message on FIFO 0

Internal accelerometer
----------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Accel <pyb.Accel>`. ::

    from pyb import Accel

    accel = Accel()
    print(accel.x(), accel.y(), accel.z(), accel.tilt())

Commit message:

docs: Unify all the ports into one set of documentation.
With this commit there is now only one entry point into the whole
documentation, which describes the general MicroPython language, and then
from there there are links to information about specific platforms/ports.

This commit doesn't change content (almost, it does fix a few internal
links), it just reorganises things.

docs/pyboard/quickref.rst, after:

.. _pyboard_quickref:

Quick reference for the pyboard
===============================

The below pinout is for PYBv1.0.  You can also view pinouts for
other versions of the pyboard:
`PYBv1.1 <http://micropython.org/resources/pybv11-pinout.jpg>`__
or `PYBLITEv1.0-AC <http://micropython.org/resources/pyblitev10ac-pinout.jpg>`__
or `PYBLITEv1.0 <http://micropython.org/resources/pyblitev10-pinout.jpg>`__.

.. only:: not latex

   .. image:: http://micropython.org/resources/pybv10-pinout.jpg
      :alt: PYBv1.0 pinout
      :width: 700px

.. only:: latex

   .. image:: http://micropython.org/resources/pybv10-pinout-800px.jpg
      :alt: PYBv1.0 pinout

Below is a quick reference for the pyboard.  If it is your first time working with
this board please consider reading the following sections first:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   general.rst
   tutorial/index.rst

General board control
---------------------

See :mod:`pyb`. ::

    import pyb

    pyb.repl_uart(pyb.UART(1, 9600)) # duplicate REPL on UART(1)
    pyb.wfi() # pause CPU, waiting for interrupt
    pyb.freq() # get CPU and bus frequencies
    pyb.freq(60000000) # set CPU freq to 60MHz
    pyb.stop() # stop CPU, waiting for external interrupt

Delay and timing
----------------

Use the :mod:`time <utime>` module::

    import time

    time.sleep(1)           # sleep for 1 second
    time.sleep_ms(500)      # sleep for 500 milliseconds
    time.sleep_us(10)       # sleep for 10 microseconds
    start = time.ticks_ms() # get value of millisecond counter
    delta = time.ticks_diff(time.ticks_ms(), start) # compute time difference

Internal LEDs
-------------

See :ref:`pyb.LED <pyb.LED>`. ::

    from pyb import LED

    led = LED(1) # 1=red, 2=green, 3=yellow, 4=blue
    led.toggle()
    led.on()
    led.off()
    
    # LEDs 3 and 4 support PWM intensity (0-255)
    LED(4).intensity()    # get intensity
    LED(4).intensity(128) # set intensity to half

Internal switch
---------------

See :ref:`pyb.Switch <pyb.Switch>`. ::

    from pyb import Switch

    sw = Switch()
    sw.value() # returns True or False
    sw.callback(lambda: pyb.LED(1).toggle())

Pins and GPIO
-------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin

    p_out = Pin('X1', Pin.OUT_PP)
    p_out.high()
    p_out.low()

    p_in = Pin('X2', Pin.IN, Pin.PULL_UP)
    p_in.value() # get value, 0 or 1

Servo control
-------------

See :ref:`pyb.Servo <pyb.Servo>`. ::

    from pyb import Servo

    s1 = Servo(1) # servo on position 1 (X1, VIN, GND)
    s1.angle(45) # move to 45 degrees
    s1.angle(-60, 1500) # move to -60 degrees in 1500ms
    s1.speed(50) # for continuous rotation servos

External interrupts
-------------------

See :ref:`pyb.ExtInt <pyb.ExtInt>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, ExtInt

    callback = lambda e: print("intr")
    ext = ExtInt(Pin('Y1'), ExtInt.IRQ_RISING, Pin.PULL_NONE, callback)

Timers
------

See :ref:`pyb.Timer <pyb.Timer>`. ::

    from pyb import Timer

    tim = Timer(1, freq=1000)
    tim.counter() # get counter value
    tim.freq(0.5) # 0.5 Hz
    tim.callback(lambda t: pyb.LED(1).toggle())

RTC (real time clock)
---------------------

See :ref:`pyb.RTC <pyb.RTC>` ::

    from pyb import RTC

    rtc = RTC()
    rtc.datetime((2017, 8, 23, 1, 12, 48, 0, 0)) # set a specific date and time
    rtc.datetime() # get date and time

PWM (pulse width modulation)
----------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>` and :ref:`pyb.Timer <pyb.Timer>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, Timer

    p = Pin('X1') # X1 has TIM2, CH1
    tim = Timer(2, freq=1000)
    ch = tim.channel(1, Timer.PWM, pin=p)
    ch.pulse_width_percent(50)

ADC (analog to digital conversion)
----------------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>` and :ref:`pyb.ADC <pyb.ADC>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, ADC

    adc = ADC(Pin('X19'))
    adc.read() # read value, 0-4095

DAC (digital to analog conversion)
----------------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Pin <pyb.Pin>` and :ref:`pyb.DAC <pyb.DAC>`. ::

    from pyb import Pin, DAC

    dac = DAC(Pin('X5'))
    dac.write(120) # output between 0 and 255

UART (serial bus)
-----------------

See :ref:`pyb.UART <pyb.UART>`. ::

    from pyb import UART

    uart = UART(1, 9600)
    uart.write('hello')
    uart.read(5) # read up to 5 bytes

SPI bus
-------

See :ref:`pyb.SPI <pyb.SPI>`. ::

    from pyb import SPI

    spi = SPI(1, SPI.MASTER, baudrate=200000, polarity=1, phase=0)
    spi.send('hello')
    spi.recv(5) # receive 5 bytes on the bus
    spi.send_recv('hello') # send and receive 5 bytes

I2C bus
-------

See :ref:`pyb.I2C <pyb.I2C>`. ::

    from pyb import I2C

    i2c = I2C(1, I2C.MASTER, baudrate=100000)
    i2c.scan() # returns list of slave addresses
    i2c.send('hello', 0x42) # send 5 bytes to slave with address 0x42
    i2c.recv(5, 0x42) # receive 5 bytes from slave
    i2c.mem_read(2, 0x42, 0x10) # read 2 bytes from slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10
    i2c.mem_write('xy', 0x42, 0x10) # write 2 bytes to slave 0x42, slave memory 0x10

CAN bus (controller area network)
---------------------------------

See :ref:`pyb.CAN <pyb.CAN>`. ::

    from pyb import CAN

    can = CAN(1, CAN.LOOPBACK)
    can.setfilter(0, CAN.LIST16, 0, (123, 124, 125, 126))
    can.send('message!', 123)   # send a message with id 123
    can.recv(0)                 # receive message on FIFO 0

Internal accelerometer
----------------------

See :ref:`pyb.Accel <pyb.Accel>`. ::

    from pyb import Accel

    accel = Accel()
    print(accel.x(), accel.y(), accel.z(), accel.tilt())
